Free and fair elections are a central feature of democracy. As the world becomes more digital and mobile phones more widespread, online voting and blockchain technology have the potential to make voting more accessible and improve election integrity.

# PROBLEM IN CURRENT VOTING SYSTEM
Government elections around the world are facing increasing security threats and concerns over election integrity.Paper ballot voting is still the most common form of voting worldwide. It is the least susceptible to cyberattacks but very susceptible to human error and fraud. While many countries are moving to electronic voting machines, they are vulnerable to cyberattacks due to outdated, poorly designed or implemented technology. At the 2017 Def Con conference, hackers demonstrated that they could hack into each and every one of the 22 different voting machines purchased from U.S. government auction sites and eBay. In some cases, nations that had introduced electronic voting have reverted back to paper voting due to security concerns.
Getting people to vote is another significant election challenge. Voter turnout has been declining around the world since the 1990s. Worldwide, approximately 222 million eligible voters are not registered to vote, and those who are registered are still failing to turn up to vote. There are many reasons for this, including the lack of identification and access to voting booths for voters as well as apathy and mistrust of the political system. Unfortunately, these problems are not limited to politically unstable or economically disadvantaged countries. The United States has one of the lowest voter turnouts (42.5%) in the world.Incredibly, 11% of eligible U.S. voters do not have the proper forms of identification to satisfy voter identification laws. Only 6% of the 4 million eligible U.S. citizens who live outside the United States voted in the 2016 presidential elections. Approximately one-third of U.S. non-voters said that the primary reason they did not vote was because they couldn’t make it to the polls.Multiple surveys indicate they would be significantly more likely to vote if they could vote online.

# SOLUTION - BLOCKCHAIN
Online voting built on top of blockchain technology is very appealing because of the accessibility and the integrity that it can bring to elections. Blockchain’s fundamental characteristics — immutability, accountability and security — drive the technology’s potential for securely maintaining voter registration records and recording votes. In such a system, voting data is inputted into blocks that are timestamped, encrypted, and “locked” to prevent tampering and unauthorised viewing. The use of distributed ledger technology (DLT) means information is not centralised, ensuring all data is copied on nodes across the network. Information cannot be lost, and there are no central points for cyberattacks such as database deletion or denial of service attacks. The underlying peer-to-peer network provides a validation mechanism that protects the integrity of the data being locked into each block. To prevent voter fraud, a voting application may employ several identification and authentication methods before votes are cast. This digitisation of voter registration and voting processes has also been proven to make elections cheaper and easier to run
